[Yawns]
[Sniffs]
Really?
[Sighs]
Erin?
Hey, Stephanie.
It's Lancaster now.
Congratulations.
You need some help?
No. Thanks.
I've been meaning to upgrade
my luggage.
You know, we were all
just talking about you.
Yeah?
We didn't see your name
on the reunion page on Facebook.
Uh, yeah, you know, I saw that,
but I have a thing
that I have to get to, so...
So are you working?
What... what are you up to?
Uh, I'm a cop.
Seriously?
Seriously, I'm a cop.
I would've thought
you'd be running from them.
Nope.
Well, come to the reunion.
And don't worry...
there are plenty of girls
who are still single who rsvp'd.
I think a big group of them
are renting a stretch hummer
or something.
Oh, and, plus,
you might meet someone.
But, hey, if not, I understand.
It's good seeing you.
[Breathing heavily]
I guess I got used to the dark.
What time do you go on?
[Breathing heavily]
The graveyard.
Well,
it looks like you picked up
some discipline inside, huh?
Yep.
Picked up a lot of things, pop.
Justin, I know you're not
loving this c.T.A. Gig, okay?
It's only temporary.
I just want to make sure
you don't fall into bad habits,
start running
with a crowd that'll...
I love you, dad.
Is everything all right?
What, I can't tell you
that I love you sometimes?
[Cell phone vibrating]
Voight.
All right, thanks, guys.
- Don't tell me.
- Yeah.
Her name's Charlotte Matthews.
Everything matches
from the victim two days ago.
- Commander.
- Raped?
- Yeah.
And ear was cut off?
That's right.
In New York six months ago
similar to our two.
We've been in contact
with the detectives there.
Now, there are 600 reasons
why I didn't want you
in charge of this unit,
but there's one main reason
why I did...
cases like this.
You understand me?
I do.
Let me talk to my partner,
and I'll get back to you.
All right, sergeant.
Hey, you know the perp
that raped and killed
and cut the victim's ear off?
He just struck again
two hours ago
in Chicago's riverwalk.
Well, I sent them
all the files from our case
when their first one happened.
I don't know what more we can do
on our end.
Not much.
That's why
we're heading to Chicago.
.
- What's up?
- Morning, sarge.
Erin, good morning.
Have you noticed that platt,
like, loves you for some reason?
- Do you own a suit?
- Yeah, why?
You're going with me
to my high-school reunion.
Also, we're engaged.
[Door buzzer sounds]
W-wait.
You're still here?
Yeah.
I plan on being here
for a while.
Yeah?
Doing what, with whom?
Look, Al...
I'm telling you right now,
man-to-man,
I'm ready to do my job
the right way,
your way.
Okay, so what do you say...
new day, new beginnings, please?
Look, I know I can be
a little overzealous, all right?
Growing up in the neighborhood
I grew up in...
I don't need
your life story, man.
I just need you to listen to me.
Yeah. Yeah.
Only when I think
you're gonna make it here,
and then you can tell me
all about how daddy
never bought you a skateboard.
You speak Italian?
[Speaking Italian]
- Where'd you pick it up?
- I was stationed in vicenza.
You served?
Yeah, a.B.C.T.,
part of a rapid response team.
It's about an hour away
from everyone.
You?
Rangers... Afghanistan.
Well, that explains a lot.
Were you ever injured
in the line of crushing grapes?
- Excuse me?
- Was that in world war ii?
- I can't hear you. What?
- Oh, my God.
These poor girls.
Media's calling him
"the riverwalk killer."
Mayor's flipping out
on the superintendent,
who's flipping out on the chief.
None of that matters to me.
And were put through something
so horrific...
It ain't gonna happen again.
There's no witnesses.
Area central searched
every crime scene
and came up blank
on physical evidence.
- Pods?
- Zero.
Detectives
from special victims unit
in New York are en route
right now to help out.
They also had two victims killed
in their city two days apart,
"and traffic cameras
picked up a male, white, 5'10"
wearing a hoodie
following both victims,
but they couldn't get
a clear visual on his face.
What about
registered sex offenders?
Nothing pops.
Plus, no DNA yet
off any of the victims.
Hey, we're not waiting around
for that.
We get proactive.
Boots on the ground.
I want everyone
working the river
looking for suspicious behavior.
Dress the part.
Burgess, I need a favor.
We're gonna need someone to man
the phones in intelligence.
So there's gonna be a lot
of calls coming in.
Yeah, I'm all over it.
Congratulations.
You made secretary.
Don't hate, appreciate.
Well, there's some fresh slang.
I'll be upstairs if you need me.
[Panting]
Oh, my God,
whoever is panting in the mic,
you're killing me right now.
Bite me, ruzek.
I've been running for an hour.
Can I start calling you Hank
or voight?
No.
Well, you know,
I'm reading this book right now.
It's called
the magic of thinking big,
wherein the author posits
that titles, you know,
they just cause this formal
and unnecessary separation
between people.
Can we do any better
on this image?
I'm working on it.
All right,
everyone check the ramp.
Eyes on a male...
white, brown hoodie.
In pursuit.
Hey!
Police! Let her go!
Hold on!
Ma'am, you okay?
Don't move!
I'm gonna crack you!
You hear me?
Give me your hand.
[Groans]
Offender in custody.
.
[Indistinct chatter]
Theo Mitchell,
and I don't think he's our guy.
Found four wallets
and three watches on him.
He's a pickpocket,
a purse-snatcher.
Four arrests in the last
ten years along those lines.
No rape, no murder,
not even a sexual assault.
What?
What do you think?
Let's bring him in.
Come on. Come on.
Get in there.
This is a rail road, man.
Unbelievable.
I would never hurt
a woman, never.
I'm inclined to believe you.
Then what the hell
am I doing here
getting looked at for it?
Riverwalk's your turf
for pulling crimes, right?
Looks like you've had pretty
fertile grounds for a while.
Oh, oh, okay, I get it.
Threaten me with rape, murder,
and then admitting
to boosting some wallets
seems tame by comparison.
You know what? I'm out of here.
No, you're not.
Sizing people up
and then ripping them off,
I'm thinking maybe
you could help us find
who did rape and kill
those two girls...
Because my experience...
a cheetah always knows
where the hyena is.
I like that analogy.
You went jungle on me.
Early this morning,
before 6:00 A.M.,
around east lake...
close your eyes and think.
[Sighs]
There was this dude...
Like, 5:00 A.M...
In running gear,
but he was just stretching
the whole time,
just looking around.
I remember thinking
he was either a criminal
or a cop,
but I ain't ever seen a cop
with a watch that nice, though.
[Scoffs]
How close did you get to him?
Real close.
I walked right by him.
What's up, office?
That's what you guys call
each other out here, right...
"office"?
Sergeant platt.
How can I help you?
Yeah, we're here to see
sergeant voight in intelligence.
We have some information
to share with him.
Regarding?
We're detectives from NYPD.
Sergeant voight is expecting us.
Oh, my God, you should have said
you were from New York City.
I'm mortified.
Why don't you park it
over there?
Hey, office burgess,
would you get your skinny ass
down here?
[Laughing] "Office."
Hey, appreciate you coming.
- Of course.
- Hank voight.
Hey, there. Rollins. Hi.
- All right, how you doing?
- How's it going?
- Okay.
- Jay.
You guys are nice.
What's up with that battle-ax
downstairs?
There isn't enough time
in the day.
Pleasure.
Start off looking
for patterns, obviously.
Why New York and now Chicago?
And this just happens
to be his route?
Maybe an interstate trucker?
Yeah.
The only commonality
that we could find
that might be worth pursuing,
is there was a manufacturing
trade show convention
in New York at the time
of our rape-murders.
Now, that convention is
now here in town
at the rittenton center?
- Rittenhouse, yeah.
- Yeah.
- Jin.
- Yeah, on it.
So who is this guy?
I mean, what are we looking for?
This perp has been elevated
to serial-killer status.
I mean, in terms
of the rape and murder,
there are five different
profile psyches.
I think we're looking
at an anger retaliatory rapist.
I mean, I get that
he's a sadistic son of a bitch
and everything,
but is he trying to establish
some sort of cred or...?
Usually as a souvenir
or a trophy.
Sometimes
they even make shrines.
- [Groans]
- Yuck.
How long we have you guys for?
As long as you need.
Yo, our monitor works better
if you don't slobber on it.
Hey, how about
that detective rollins?
She's got, like, ten things
going on,
all of them good, am I right?
Yeah.
I give your marriage six months.
No, no, no, no, no, no, no.
Wendy and I...
we're cool like that.
And could tell her
exactly what I just told you.
- [Laughs] Yeah?
- Yeah.
You'd tell your fiance
that you worked
with a hot detective
from New York
that kind of blew your mind?
No.
- No.
- Come here.
- All right.
Okay, here's a list of
attendees to both conferences,
and I managed to put them
through the dmv database
and pull the photos.
Jin, I don't need to hear
about the labor.
Just show me the baby.
There.
I got 45 guys
who went to both conferences.
All right.
Wait. Hold up.
Whoa, whoa.
Don't touch the keys.
No. No.
Look, how many of these
I got to look at?
Don't worry about it.
Just keep looking.
I mean, like, 100 or 200,
'cause...
whoa, whoa, whoa.
That's the dude.
I swear to God.
Fyi, you're not just my fiance.
You're my fiance
that got in early at Facebook,
like, way early.
You're worth
at least $10 million.
Well, how about I get a perm
and I wear a hoodie,
and you can just tell everybody
I'm mark zuckerberg?
The reason
I don't wear a ring...
why can't I be a cop?
- What does your suit look like?
- Like a suit.
It has to look high end.
I have nice suits.
[Door opens, indistinct chatter]
There.
- Jeffrey Baker?
- Yes?
Detectives Lindsay
and halstead, Chicago p.D.
Apparently, there's been
some damage to your hotel room.
Would you mind coming with us
to talk about it?
I didn't do any damage
to my hotel room.
Great. You can clear all
that up down at the district.
After you.
So how long
have you been in town?
Five days.
Mm. From St. Louis?
You been to the riverwalk
at all, Jeffrey?
What does that
have to do with my hotel room?
I'll ask you, again.
You been to the riverwalk?
I have.
When?
[Chuckles] Forgive me,
but I get the sneaking suspicion
that I'm not here
about a hotel room.
Well, why else
would we bring you in?
I haven't the foggiest.
Mm.
Oh, would you like some water?
What days and times
were you at the riverwalk?
Do you get the Internet here?
'Cause there's this great video
on YouTube
by this law-school Professor,
and he's very articulate,
and he makes a very compelling
and convincing argument.
It's called
"don't talk to cops."
No offense.
[Chuckles]
You're not in St. Louis,
Jeffrey.
We've had two rape-murders here
in the last few days
where the women were mutilated.
Now, you're gonna answer
some questions about that.
Wipe that stupid smile
off your face.
I will remove the smile,
as requested,
and tell you very seriously
that you have the wrong guy.
We want the dates and times
you were at the riverwalk.
Get writing.
There's been another rape
down at the riverwalk.
Victim survived.
She's at Chicago med.
.
Hi, Vanessa. Ma'am.
I'm detective Lindsay,
and this is detective Dawson,
and we're here to try to...
I'll do whatever I can
to help you catch him.
All right.
Thank you.
Can you take us through
what happened?
I'm on the soccer team
at school,
so I like to get a run in
after practice,
and I cut through riverwalk
the way I do every day,
and out of nowhere,
this guy appears
in a brown hoodie
with a mask on.
Did he say anything?
Just to shut up and not scream.
He put a hand over my mouth,
and he dragged me
to, like, this dark area
underneath the stairs.
And then he yanked my sweats
and underwear down,
and that's when...
That... that's when he did it.
Okay.
Is there anything
that you could see on him...
scars, a birthmark?
No.
What about height and weight?
He was about you're height,
maybe a little heavier than you.
He had brown eyes,
and I saw some of his hair.
It was dirty blonde.
Well, that's great.
That's a lot more than we had.
Is there anything else
that you saw
that could help us identify him?
When he took his knife out...
Something kicked in.
We just had this self-defense
class at school,
and the instructor lady
said that if you don't remember
anything else,
you should slap, grab,
twist, and pull.
And that's what I did.
Good.
I'm glad you did.
Now, when that happened,
were you able
to scratch his face or...?
It got my thumbnail
inside his eye,
his right eye...
Deep.
He screamed,
and he fell off of me, and...
And that's when I ran.
You have been amazing.
He didn't break me.
I want him to know that.
He will.
The guy we brought in,
Jeffrey Baker...
what eye color does he have?
Blue.
Plus, he was in our custody
when this rape happened.
All right, kick him.
Blonde hair, brown eyes,
possible damage to the eye.
Check all clinics, hospitals,
see if anybody came in
for an eye injury.
I'll get it out to all vehicle
and foot patrol.
[Sighs]
You all right?
She's only 16.
Let's get him.
Hey, I have to head out,
but if anyone asks,
I'm on official business.
Wait. Sorry.
Can you repeat that?
Yes, I have to go,
but it's official business,
just in case anyone asks.
Hold on.
I got to write this down,
or I'm gonna forget it.
- Okay, officer burgess...
- Yeah.
Has to go,
but in case anyone asks...
oh, that's right. Nobody cares.
Okay.
Okay, so, if the perp
was rational,
I mean, he'd leave town knowing
that the heat is on,
but there's a good chance
he's not,
so most likely he's angrier.
He's more fixated
because his needs went unmet.
He probably has a good idea
that he left DNA
under the victim's fingernails,
and it's only a matter of time
before he gets I.D.'D,
so he's gonna need to strike
soon while he has a chance.
All right,
hospitals and clinics,
check with foot patrol down
at riverwalk.
Beat the bushes on this guy.
Hey, where's burgess?
I haven't seen her.
- Whoa.
- Oh, sorry. My bad.
Hmm.
Oh, yeah, that confirms it.
Chicago cops cannot make
a good cup of coffee either.
[Both chuckle]
Here.
Thanks for helping us
work this case.
Of course.
They're tough...
Especially when the victims
are kids,
but, you know,
at least Vanessa's alive.
It just doesn't make any sense.
So you want the good guys
to win.
I want the bad guys
to get what's coming to them.
Well, sometimes they do.
Do you believe in karma?
I believe in payback.
Just a little
unsolicited advice,
just because I've been there...
be careful
'cause payback
is the biggest bitch
when it consumes you.
Here, put that in there.
[Knock at door]
Where you been?
Well, I called
all the pharmacies
within a two-mile radius
of the attempted rape
asking if any male
with blonde hair and brown eyes
came in
with an apparent eye injury.
The walgreen's over on superior
said a guy
matched that description,
bought gauze,
peroxide, sunglasses.
They needed to see a badge,
that's why
I had to go down there.
What do you got?
He used a credit card...
Neil vance.
Jin pulled
his credit card history.
He's been staying
at the hotel fauntleroy
the past six days.
He also has hotel charges
in New York
at the same time
of the rape-murders
that happened there.
Team effort.
But, uh, really, more her.
You're going places, kid.
Halstead and Lindsay.
Parked, we got eyes in the back.
O and ruzek?
Lobby. Vance is not in his room.
Stay put.
Mackinac island.
- What?
- That's where we met.
I was at a leadership
conference,
and you were picking out
property for a summer retreat.
Of course I was.
It all went down
at the grand hotel...
fireworks, candlelight.
This is good.
This tells me a lot about you.
I am adding color to our story.
It's just like undercover.
The details sell it.
Yeah, just like going
undercover.
What?
- It's ridiculous.
- [Scoffs]
You have no idea what kind
of bitches these girls can be.
[Indistinct chatter]
Quit acting like a cop.
Just for the record, my dad...
he did buy me a skateboard.
Santa Cruz, black deck,
silver trucks, orange wheels.
I can still do a nosegrind
down a handrail, baby.
True story.
I'm not a robot, Alvin.
Love me or leave me, man.
Love me, Al.
You're a pisser, man.
I swear to God.
Pisser... I like that.
Hey, that guy
that we, uh, brought in
from the convention center
and kicked.
Yeah, Jeffrey Baker.
- What hotel is he staying at?
- Sofitel.
He just walked in.
He's talking to the desk clerk.
[Walkie-talkie beeps]
Jeffrey Baker just walked
into the lobby.
[Walkie-talkie beeps] Take him.
The guy that just came up here
and talked to you...
[Elevator bell dings]
Suspect's exiting
through the front door.
[Engine turning over]
[Tires squealing]
[Car horn blares]
[Tires screeching]
[Car door closes]
What are you doing here,
Jeffrey?
I'm just out for a stroll.
Put your hands up.
Clerk said he was asking
what room Neil vance
was staying in.
Where's vance?
I want a lawyer.
.
Some deviant chat room
most likely.
Baker travels
for his conventions.
Maybe vance meets him there.
Baker's the lookout
while vance does the crime.
It's a dyad.
Both partners plan
and commit the crime together,
but there is usually
a dominant-submissive
relationship.
Like the columbine killers,
the D.C. snipers,
the menendez brothers,
those two yahoos
who blew up the Boston marathon.
Yeah, the dominant force
is psychopathic and/or sadistic.
The submissive partner
is depressed.
He's dependent.
The leader
is gonna be charismatic,
he's looking for a follower
to manipulate,
while the subordinate...
he's vulnerable.
He feels lost.
He needs someone to lead him.
Baker's the dominant,
guaranteed.
- Where's Baker right now?
- He's in the interview room.
He's all lawyered up.
Not for long.
Put him in the cage.
Yes, sergeant.
What's the cage?
With some pretty sharp
detectives from New York.
I think we got you figured out.
You don't say.
You pull the strings.
Neil vance does the dirty work.
I have no idea
what you're talking about.
Take a walk.
I like that face.
Where's vance?
Which I've been attempting
to exercise repeated...
ah!
Ugh!
I can't begin to try
to understand
what goes through someone's head
who would rape and murder
a woman,
so I got to ask you,
why cut off the ear?
Can you explain that to me?
No, because I have no idea...
you both get your rocks off
on it, right?
Probably have him explain to you
in detail what it was like,
what she went through.
Instead of hearing about it...
How about I show you firsthand?
Get away from me. I have rights.
I have rights!
You have me...
You sick...
- Where's vance?
- No!
No, you can't do this!
Ah!
[Crying]
Wait a sec.
That's the wrong ear.
You have vance cut off
the right one, correct?
I haven't done anything!
You tell me where vance is
right now,
or they're gonna carry you
out of here in sandwich bags.
You hear?
Navy pier!
I'm supposed to meet him
in a half an hour at Navy pier.
[Groans]
[Door opens, closes]
Spread out.
Come on.
Yeah, hi. How are you?
Okay.
I got the eye.
Ruzek?
Where are you?
C.P.D.! Out of the way!
[Woman screams]
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa.
Come on, now.
I'll kill her!
.
Drop the gun on the ground
and kick it to me!
All right.
I'm not gonna give you
a loaded gun,
but you knew that, right?
Where are you, ruzek?
What's your endgame here,
brother?
You got no way out.
Why don't you let her go?
Come with me.
- No!
- We have Jeffrey.
He gave you up.
I mean,
how do you think we found you?
What are you gonna do?
You gonna jump on a boat?
I mean,
you haven't hurt her yet.
We can still work this out.
Shut up!
Don't do this.
You got a backup gun! I know it!
Give it to me!
See, you're smart, Neil.
You're smart.
Not even my partner, marlyn,
knows about the backup.
Ruzek's at the marlyn yacht.
Everybody move in.
Listen, I'm gonna make a deal
with you, okay?
You let her go, I let you go.
Right now
I just want the girl safe.
Call s.W.A.T. In?
No, there's no time for that.
Halstead and olinsky,
move into position.
We're backing out of here.
The moment I see
someone flash metal at me,
none of that needs to happen,
all right?
We're not going there.
[Walkie-talkie beeps]
You got the shot?
- Affirmative.
- Light him up.
[Gunshot] - Aah!
Hey, don't look at him.
Come here. Come with me.
- Hey, what's your name?
- Kate.
Kate, I'm Adam.
Let's sit you down
right here, okay?
- You all right?
- Yeah.
It's okay.
- This is detective Lindsay.
- Hi.
I just want you to calm down.
She's gonna ask you
a couple of questions.
Do you have any family
we can call?
Yeah. It's in my cell phone.
Okay, we'll get it.
We'll get everybody here,
and we'll get you
to the hospital.
[Distant sirens wailing]
You saw some action
when you were stationed in Italy
I take it?
A little, yeah.
We got him.
[Sobbing]
You have fun answering phones
up there today?
Have a good night, sergeant.
All right, there you go...
- macallan on the rocks.
- Thanks.
Where you two from, again?
Cops from N.Y.C.
Well, you know, even though
firefighters own this place,
quit beating around the bush
and give me something here.
- It's classified.
- You got to be kidding me.
You see what I deal with
every day?
Where's voight?
Voight?
Voight doesn't come to this bar.
- Why not?
- It's a long story.
- Classified.
- It's classified, yeah.
[Laughter]
Well said.
You did good.
I'll take that.
You did good. You did good.
I'll take that, man.
I'll take that.
You know what? Everybody did.
Really. Cheers.
Hey, one second.
Hey, burgess? Come here.
Antonio wanted to make sure
we took care of you tonight.
- Saddle up.
- Thanks.
To the blue.
All: To the blue.
Cheers.
And, of course,
now it's raining.
Hold on. The ring...
you never talked about the ring.
Why don't you wear it?
I'll wing it.
I'm not gonna be able
to keep this stuff straight.
Did we meet before or after
I got stupid rich on Facebook?
[Women screaming excitedly]
What am I doing here?
So, like you saw in the file,
I had been voight's c.I.,
so he knew me,
and when I was 16,
him and his wife took me in.
They saved me.
And then he pulled some strings
and got me into St. ignatius,
and when I got there,
I just made up who I was...
voight's goddaughter
staying with him
while my parents were traveling.
So you've always been good
at undercover?
[Laughs]
If you mean lying, yeah.
I was a street kid.
[Laughs]
So Steph and her crew
pulled me into their clique,
and pretty soon we were
doing everything together...
shopping, parties, and...
All of it.
[Sighs]
And then somebody found out
who I really was.
You figure out who your
real friends are pretty quick
when the word's out
that your mom's a junkie
and your dad's in jail.
Whose ass did you kick first?
[Chuckles]
Voight had to make a deal
with the director of the school
to get me in.
If I got in a fight
and threw even one punch,
I was out.
So I ate it.
And it still bothers me.
I don't know why.
Even after days like today,
when you would think everything
would be put in perspective...
I don't know.
We can't.
Come on, let's get you home.
[Sighs]
Maybe one day.
Oh, definitely.
Hey, Justin, it's me again.
Wondering if you want
to catch a late bite.
All right, give me a call.
[Knock at door]
[Chuckles]
- Hey.
[Breathing heavily]
- Are you okay?
- Um...
What's wrong?
I just, um...
I didn't want to do it,
you know?
I just... I had to.
Justin?
What the hell did you do?
[Breathing heavily]